---
layout: page
permalink: /teaching/
title: teaching
description: Materials for courses you taught. Replace this text with your description.
nav: true
nav_order: 6
---

As an educator, my mission is to cultivate an inclusive and dynamic learning environment where students not only acquire knowledge but also develop the critical thinking and creative skills essential for their personal and professional growth. Teaching Spanish language and culture in the United States presents a valuable opportunity to bridge cultural gaps, empower students with global perspectives, and equip them with practical tools that extend beyond the classroom. For that reason, my approach is grounded in three core principles: fostering a safe and welcoming environment, embracing a student-centered pedagogy, and incorporating technology to enhance learning experiences.
In my classroom, I prioritize making students feel comfortable and supported, recognizing that a positive learning environment is foundational to their success. At the beginning of each course, I administer an anonymous survey to understand my students' backgrounds, their access to resources, and any potential challenges they may face. This survey includes questions about their familiarity with digital tools, access to personal computers, and awareness of mental health support services. By conducting this survey, I want to let my students know that their learning journey is a priority for me, showing them that they are valued as individuals, not just as names on a roster. I want my students to understand that, before anything else, we are human beings—teacher and student—and that I am always attentive to their needs and ready to support them in any way I can. This approach was especially crucial during my role as Faculty Lead in the Ronda Study Abroad program, where understanding and addressing students' diverse needs was key to fostering a successful and enriching experience. When designing the course SPAN 497- La cultura visual en España: poder, identidad y representatividad, I aligned the curriculum with the excursions planned for the weekends. For example, we discussed Andalusian architecture before visiting the Alhambra, exploring how spaces are associated with power. By adapting classroom materials to connect with their experiences outside the classroom, I helped students gain a deeper understanding of the cultural context and reinforce the knowledge they were acquiring in class.
Additionally, I emphasize the importance of embracing mistakes as an integral part of the learning process. In lower-level Spanish courses, such as Spanish 1 or 3, my students often feel intimidated when speaking in class. To alleviate this fear, I share my own experiences as a non-native English speaker, reassuring them that errors are a natural and valuable aspect of language acquisition. This approach encourages active participation, and by the end of the course, many students have overcome their initial hesitation. Some have even been inspired to pursue a minor or major in Spanish because of this supportive environment. This method is particularly relevant when teaching Spanish in the U.S., where students are not only learning the language but also navigating its cultural nuances. For example, in my SPAN 353- Spanish Culture through visual and textual representations, I encouraged students to explore and discuss complex cultural topics with a focus on learning about diversity and promoting mutual respect. This approach fosters a classroom atmosphere where students feel empowered to engage deeply with the material, regardless of their proficiency level.
In that sense, my role extends beyond mere instruction; I see myself as a facilitator of my students' learning journeys. I adapt my teaching methods to meet their individual needs, fostering an interactive and responsive classroom environment. For example, in my SPAN 353 course, I integrate collaborative tools like Google Jamboard to enhance student engagement with the material. This digital whiteboard encourages interactive discussions, allowing students to visually contribute their ideas, which deepens their understanding of Spanish culture and history. Students are tasked with choosing a photo and formulating a question or idea to share with the class—these images prompting them to connect the lesson with their personal interests.
This activity is particularly well-received, as it allows students to discuss topics, they are passionate about, while also giving them time to prepare for the discussion. Moreover, this type of discussion facilitates the introduction of controversial topics such as sexism, dictatorship, and colonization, equipping students with the tools to think critically about these complex issues. In general, it helps them develop important skills such as leading discussions, presenting confidently in front of their peers, and working collaboratively by engaging with others' contributions.
In less advanced classes, I also use Jamboard during class sessions to allow students to share words or concepts they haven't understood from the materials. Since I follow a flipped classroom model, students may sometimes feel pressured to demonstrate their understanding of the content before participating. To address this, I begin each lesson with a short story that emphasizes the grammar points followed by a Jamboard sharing session. The anonymity of Jamboard encourages students to ask questions more openly without the fear of judgment. This collective discussion not only clarifies misunderstandings but also promotes active participation, ensuring that all students, regardless of their language proficiency, feel comfortable engaging with the material.
For that reason, incorporating technology into my teaching is a key aspect of my philosophy, particularly in an era where digital literacy is increasingly important. In my advanced courses, I integrate tools like digital Story Map,  time line, and Canva to enhance the learning experience. In my advanced courses, like SPAN 353 or 497, students use Canva to design visual journals that reflect their understanding of course content. Every two weeks, they are required to write an entry connected to the cultural or literary topic of that week. Each entry ties into the theoretical aspects of the course, and it also focuses on analyzing visual materials and developing critical thinking skills. Students must carefully consider the design of each entry while providing their own opinions on the topic, using tools that enhance their ability to analyze photography, cinema, and paintings. By providing continuous feedback on these diaries, I help students reflect on their progress and improve their Spanish writing abilities. According to post-course surveys, students reported significant improvements in their writing skills thanks to this particular activity. In this sense, I not only enhance their grasp of the material but also equips them with valuable skills applicable beyond the classroom.
Moreover, in SPAN 200: Intensive Grammar and Composition, we use the platform Lingro Hub for watching the short films that we are going to work on, and they were required to create a digital personal portfolio. While these portfolios could be more than just an academic exercise, I encourage my students to build them as resources that can be useful in the job market later. By providing students with tools that are useful both within and beyond the classroom, we make language and cultural learning more relevant and appealing. For instance, my business and marketing students have found Canva particularly beneficial, as it offers practical skills they can apply in their fields. This not only enriches their academic experience but also enhances their career prospects.
